Quote for the mind:  
Pray as though everything depended on God. Work as though everything depended on you.  
Saint Augustine

Just a note: Installing Ubuntu on a USB drive will be install on RAM and not on a disk.
What this means is that Ubuntu will install Live and everytime
you reboot Ubuntu OS from the USB, the USB will reset everything downloaded, saved,
configured, etc. If you want Ubuntu on the USB drive that is persistent
or saves everything. I have steps the do that as well.

Prerequisite:
1 8GB USB, 1 16GB USB   (I recommend 2 32GB USB)
Any operating system     (I used Windows 11)
Ubuntu ISO (from ubuntu.com/download)
Ventoy

Description:
Installing Ubuntu on a USB drive is a great way to create a portable Linux system.  
You can use it for live testing, troubleshooting, or as a full Linux OS that runs   
off the USB with saved files and settings. 

Persistent: A full install that acts like a real OS and will saves your changes
Live: A read-only environment that will not save data after reboot.

Another note: This is for when you start installing Ubuntu on USB.  
How to check disks during installation.
On the Installation Setup screen after selecting "Something else":
Use the device name such as /dev/sda, or /dev/sdb, to identify which disk is which
To verify disks:   (During Installation Setup)
Open a terminal by pressing Ctrl + Alt + T
View all disks and partitions by size and mount point
lsblk
This gives detailed info about each disk's partitions and filesystem
sudo fdisk -l
Look at sizes such as 16GB, or 512GB then check to know which is your USB  
and which is your internal drive.
!!!Be very careful not to install Ubuntu to your internal hard drive if you want a portable system!!!

How to Install Ubuntu on a USB Drive 
Download Ubuntu ISO
Go to: https://ubuntu.com/download
Download the latest .iso file

Install Ubuntu Live USB.
Create a Bootable Installer USB (From Linux or Windows):
Download Ventoy from https://ventoy.net
Extract and install Ventoy to a USB:    (Use the smaller USB)
sudo ./Ventoy2Disk.sh -i /dev/sdX  # Replace sdX with your USB device
Copy the Ubuntu ISO to the Ventoy USB   (drag and drop)
Boot from USB and select the ISO

Or

Use Rufus (From Windows)
Insert USB
Download Rufus from http://rufus.ie/en/
Open Rufus
Select Ubuntu ISO
Partition scheme: GPT
File system: FAT32
Check "Persistent storage" if you want to save files (choose size)
Click "Start"

Install Ubuntu Persistent USB.
Create a Bootable Installer USB (From Linux or Windows):
Download Ventoy from https://ventoy.net
Extract and install Ventoy to a USB:    (Use the smaller USB)
sudo ./Ventoy2Disk.sh -i /dev/sdX  # Replace sdX with your USB device
Insert both USBs: (The bigger USB. This is where Ubuntu will be installed)
Boot from USB and Install Ubuntu to Another USB (for full install)

If you want Ubuntu fully installed on a second USB:
At the Ubuntu welcome screen, click Install Ubuntu
When asked about installation type: Select "Something else" 
Choose the second USB device (/dev/sbx) 
Create partitions: Root (/) and /home
Set file system type: ext4
Set mount point /
Install bootloader to the same USB device.
Proceed with installation
After Installation
Reboot and select the new Ubuntu USB in the BIOS boot menu
Enjoy a portable Linux system with full persistence

Troubleshooting Tips:
If Ubuntu doesn't boot, check BIOS boot mode: 
reboot computer and hold down Delete, F12, etc. and go to Boot menue to look and see 
if boot mode is set UEFI (gpt partition) or Legacy (mbr partition) because  
if boot mode is UEFI in the BIOS then during Ubuntu OS installation the partition needs to be gpt. 
And if boot mode is Legacy in the BIOS then during Ubuntu OS installation the partition needs to be mbr.
Once Unbuntu OS is installed and if files aren't saving, you may be using a live USB 
instead of a persistent or fully installed Ubuntu on USB.
Also, do not forget to use lsblk or gparted to confirm which drive is which during setup.
