Quote for the mind:
The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.  
Edmund Burke

How to Install Windows 11 on a Clean Disk: Step-by-Step Guide

Before wiping any drives be sure to Back Up Your Data.
Back up any activation keys or software licenses, reinstall apps, bookmarks, etc.
Save your personal files (documents, downloads, photos, etc.) to:
External hard drive
USB flash drive or
Cloud storage (OneDrive, or Google Drive)

You can wipe the disk using any of these methods.

Ways to Wipe Your Windows Disk Drive:
During Windows Installation setup on the "Where do you want to install Windows?" screen, 
select the disk and delete all partitions that are from Windows 11's disk.
Select "Unallocated Space" to install Windows clean

Or
 
From Linux or Live USB 
Use gparted, parted, or wipefs to delete partitions and clear signatures

The wipef way.
Using wipefs to clear all filesystem signatures:
The -a flag removes all identifiable filesystem signatures (like NTFS, ext4, etc.)
sudo wipefs -a /dev/sdX   (Replace /dev/sdX with your target disk such as /dev/sda, or /dev/nvme0n1)

the parted way.
Using parted to remove all partitions and reinitialize disk:
sudo parted /dev/sdX
mklabel gpt       (Now inside the parted prompt choose only one: gpt or mbr)
quit

Or

During Windows 11 installation setup:
Press Shift+F10 to open CMD
Using Command Line:
diskpart
list disk
select disk 0
clean
exit

Download the official Windows 11 ISO file from Microsoft:
Visit: https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11

Download a USB Installer Tool

Choose one of the following tools to create a bootable USB:

Rufus (For Windows users)
Insert USB (8GB+)  
Download from: https://rufus.ie
Open Rufus
Select: Windows 11<VERSION>.iso
Partition scheme: GPT  (In the BIOS, if Boot mode is UEFI then gpt. If Legacy then mbr)
File system: NTFS 
Click "Start"

Or

Ventoy (For multi-boot users)
Download from: https://ventoy.net
Extract and run Ventoy2Disk.exe
Select USB drive and install Ventoy
Then drag and drop the Windows11.iso into the USB

Or

WoeUSB (For Linux users)
Install WoeUSB:
sudo woeusb --target-filesystem NTFS --device /path/to/Win11.iso /dev/sdX

Now time to install Windows 11:
Insert your USB installer (The one with Rufus, Vectoy, or WoeUSB and Win11<VERSION>.iso)
Restart/reboot your computer
Press the boot key (F12, Esc, or Del depending on your system)
Choose your USB device (Look for UEFI)
Windows setup will launch
Choose language and region
Select Custom Installation
Delete existing partitions      (Remember this is one of the option for wiping the disk)
When creating C: drive keep in mind to leave unallocated space 
if planning to dual-boot with Linux later.
Create or select partition for Windows (300 GB or more for C: drive)
Proceed with installation. Your PC will reboot several times.


Congratulations 🎉
You’ve successfully installed Windows 11 on a clean disk.
You can now install drivers, apps, and updates
Set up your user account
Restore backed-up files


How to Troubleshoot Driver Issues.  
If Windows 11 Setup installation doesn’t detect your Wi-Fi or storage driver
Use this trick to allow you to skip the "connect to a network" screen.
During Setup:
Press Shift + F10 and type: OOBE\BYPASSNRO



After Setup:
Use another device to download drivers from:
Your laptop manufacturer's site (MSI, Dell)
Use Intel/AMD/NVIDIA sites for chipset, Wi-Fi, or graphics
Copy to USB and install manually in Windows 11 device manager: 
Windows + x then find device manager
Find Network adapter then Wifi then right click then update.

And remember...
Take your time, back up, and be patient because you are building tech confidence with every step!
Cheers!!!!



